Nicene Investments
1434 W. 16TH. ST. • MOUNT PLEASANT, TX 75455 
Phone_Number 
1. Residency and Financials 
1.1 PARTIES AND OCCUPANTS 
This Lease Contract is between you, the undersigned resident(s): 
First_Name Last_Name
and us, the owner/agent: 
Nicene Investments 
You've agreed to rent the property located at 
1434 W. 16TH. ST. APT. #
MOUNT PLEASANT, TX 75455 
for use as a private residence only. The terms "you" and "your" refer to all residents listed above. The terms "we," "us," and "our" refer to the owner/agent listed. 
The apartment will be occupied exclusively by the resident(s) listed above. The Owner/Agent must approve unauthorized occupants living in the premises for longer than 7 consecutive days. 
1.2 LEASE DURATION 
The terms of this tenancy shall commence on Start_Date and end on End_Date , and thereafter, shall be month-to-month on the same terms and conditions as stated herein, save any changes made pursuant to law, until terminated. 
1.3 RENTS AND CHARGES 
You shall pay $Rent_Amount per month for rent. The first month’s rent and/or prorated rent amount shall be due prior to move-in. 
Every month thereafter, you must pay your rent on or before the 1st day of each month with 5 days of grace period. The following late fees will apply for payments made after the grace period: 
Late fee rule: $25.00 Flat Fee 
Daily late fee: $5.00 
Max late fee will go only up to 10% of your rent. 
A charge of $25 will apply for every returned check or rejected electronic payment plus the amount of any fees charged to the Owner/Agent by any financial institution as a result of the check not being honored, plus any applicable late fee charges. If you don't pay rent on time, you'll be delinquent and all remedies under this Lease Contract will be authorized. 
We may change the terms of this lease in accordance with applicable law, including rent increases and other modifications to the terms of the contract. 
1.4 SECURITY DEPOSIT 
The total security deposit at the time of execution of this Lease Contract for all residents in the apartment is $Deposit_Amount, due on or before the date this Lease Contract is signed. The security deposit is non-refundable. 
1.5 UTILITIES 
We'll pay for the following utilities: 
Water 
You'll pay for all other utilities, related deposits, and any charges, fees, or services on such utilities. We do not guarantee or warrant that 1
there will be no interruption of utility service. You shall contact the utility service provider in the event of an interruption of service. If your electricity is ever interrupted, you must use only battery-operated lighting. 
1.6 INSURANCE 
We do not maintain insurance to cover your personal belongings or personal injury. You assume all liability for personal injury, property damage or loss, and insurable risk. We urge you to get your own insurance for losses to your personal property or injuries due to theft, fire, water damage, pipe leaks and the like. 
By initialing below, you acknowledge and agree to the terms in Section 1. 
X Tennant_Signature
First_Name Last_Name
2. Policies and Procedures 
2.1 RESIDENT SAFETY AND PROPERTY LOSS 
You and all occupants and guests must exercise due care for your own and others’ safety and security, especially in the use of smoke detectors, keyed deadbolt locks, keyless deadbolts, window latches, and other security or safety devices. You agree to make every effort to abide by the rules and guidelines in this Lease Contact. 
Casualty Loss 
We’re not liable to any resident, guest, or occupant for personal injury or damage or loss of personal property from any cause, including but not limited to: fire, smoke, rain, flood, water and pipe leaks, hail, ice, snow, lightning, wind, explosions, earthquake, interruption of utilities, theft, or vandalism unless otherwise required by law. 
Smoke Detectors 
The Unit is equipped with smoke and carbon monoxide detectors in accordance with state or local government regulations. You must immediately report smoke-detector malfunctions to us. Neither you nor others may disable smoke detectors. You will be liable to others and us for any loss, damage, or fines from fire, smoke, or water if that condition arises from disabling or damaging the smoke detector or from your failure to replace a dead battery or report malfunctions to us. 
Safety and Crime Free 
You or any guest or resident under your control, should not engage in any criminal activity in your unit or community. 
In case of emergency, fire, accident, smoke or suspected criminal activity, dial 911 or call emergency personnel. You should then contact our representative. Unless otherwise provided by law, we’re not liable to you or any guests or occupants for injury, damage, or loss to person or property caused by criminal conduct of other persons, including theft, burglary, assault, vandalism, or other crimes. 
2.2 PARKING 
You will park on the property at your own risk. We may regulate the time, manner, and place of parking cars, trucks, motorcycles, bicycles, boats, trailers, and recreational vehicles by anyone. We may have unauthorized or illegally parked vehicles towed under an appropriate statute. Vehicles are prohibited from parking on the premises if they are inoperable, have no current license, take up more than one parking space, are parked in a marked handicap space without proper handicap insignia, block other vehicles from existing, are parked in a space not dedicated to parking, including, but not limited to, grass, sidewalks, patio, and fire lanes. 
2.3 PETS 
No pets are allowed at this property 
2
By initialing below, you acknowledge and agree to the terms in Section 2. 
X Tennant_Signature
First_Name Last_Name
3. Responsibilities 
3.1 CONDITION OF PREMISES AND ALTERATIONS 
You accept the apartment, fixtures, and furniture as is, except for conditions materially affecting the health or safety of ordinary persons. We disclaim all implied warranties. You shall maintain the premises in good, clean and tenantable condition throughout the tenancy. You agree not to alter, damage, or remove our property, including alarm systems, smoke detectors, furniture, telephone and cable TV wiring, screens, locks, and security devices. You may not paint or make any permanent alteration without our written consent. 
3.2 REQUESTS, REPAIRS, MALFUNCTIONS 
You shall report any damage or problem immediately upon discovery or you may be held responsible for the cost. Our complying with or responding to any oral request regarding security or nonsecurity matters doesn’t waive the strict requirement for written notices under this Lease Contract. You must promptly notify us in writing of: water leaks; electrical problems; malfunctioning lights; broken or missing locks or latches; and other conditions that pose a hazard to the property, or your health, or safety. We will respond in accordance with state law and the Lease Contract to repair or remedy the situation, as necessary. We may turn off equipment and interrupt utilities as needed to avoid property damage or to perform work. 
3.3 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTIONS 
We have the right to enter the premises at all reasonable hours, with proper notice, for the purpose of inspection, responding to your request, making repairs and/or preventative maintenance, pest control, showing to prospective residents, buyers, loan officers or insurance agents, and for any emergency situations that may arise. 
3.4 MOVE-OUT 
You will give us a written notice with your intent to vacate 30 (thirty) days prior to the date of expiration of the Lease Contract. In such notice, you will include your forwarding address. 
Surrender, abandonment, and eviction ends your right of possession for all purposes and gives us the immediate right to: clean up, make repairs in, and relet the apartment; determine any security deposit deductions; and remove property left in the apartment. Surrender, abandonment, and eviction affect your rights to property left in the apartment. Surrender, abandonment, and eviction do not affect our mitigation obligations. 
Cleaning 
You must thoroughly clean the unit, including doors, windows, furniture, bathrooms, kitchen appliances, patios, balconies, garages, carports, and storage rooms. If you don’t clean adequately, you’ll be liable for reasonable cleaning charges. 
By initialing below, you acknowledge and agree to the terms in Section 3. 
X Tennant_Signature
First_Name Last_Name
3
4. General Clauses 
4.1 DEFAULT BY RESIDENT 
You’ll be in default if you or any guest or occupant violates any terms of this Lease Contract including but not limited to the following violations: failure to pay rent or other amounts that you owe when due; you or any guest or occupant violates the apartment rules, or fire, safety, health, or criminal laws, or engages in dangerous behavior, regardless of whether or where arrest or conviction occurs; you abandon the apartment; you give incorrect or false answers in rental application or you provide false or fraudulent documentation requested by us; you or any occupant is arrested, convicted, or given deferred adjudication for a felony offense; any illegal drugs or paraphernalia are found in your apartment; you or any guest or occupant engages in any prohibited conduct; or you or any occupant, in bad faith, makes an invalid complaint to an official or employee of a utility company or the government. If you are in default for any reason, we may file a suit for Lease Contract termination after giving you fourteen (14) days written notice of Lease Contract termination. Such notice will state that your Lease Contract will terminate fourteen (14) days of your receipt of the notice, unless the breach is remedied within the fourteen (14) day period. 
Other Remedies 
If your rent is delinquent, you immediately forfeit all rights to occupy the apartment any longer, and if you have not vacated the unit by the date specified in the Lease Contract termination notice, you are guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day of your unlawful presence in the apartment constitutes a separate offense. We may report unpaid amounts to credit agencies. Upon your default and early move-out, you will pay us any amounts stated to be rental discounts, in addition to other sums due. Upon your default, we have all other legal remedies, including suit for Lease Contract termination, possession, damages, rent, and all other monies due. We may turn any returned checks over to law enforcement officials for prosecution according to law. 
4.2 CONTRACT TERMINATION AND DISPUTE 
This Lease Contract may only be amended, waived, or terminated by our representatives in writing. Any oral promises, representations or agreements by our representatives shall not be considered legally binding. No action or omission of our representative will be considered a waiver of any subsequent violation, default, or time or place of performance. Our not enforcing or belatedly enforcing written notice requirement, rental due dates, acceleration, liens, or other rights isn’t a waiver under any circumstances. 
Waiver of Jury Trial 
To minimize legal expenses and, to the extent allowed by law, you and we agree that a trial of any lawsuit based on statute common law, and/or related to this Lease Contract shall be to a judge and not a jury. 
Force Majeure 
We shall be excused from performance of obligations if we are prevented from fulfilling such obligations by an act of God, strikes, epidemics, war, acts of terrorism, riots, or other occurrence, which is beyond our control. 
By initialing below, you acknowledge and agree to the terms in Section 4. 
X Tennant_Signature
First_Name Last_Name
4
H&M Properties 
1306 W. FERGUSON RD. • MOUNT PLEASANT, TX 75455 
(903) 572-7746 
5. Sign and Accept 
5.1 ACCEPTANCE OF LEASE 
This is a legally binding document. By typing your name, you are consenting to use electronic means to (i) sign this contract (ii) accept lease agreement and addenda. You will receive a printed contract for your records. 
X Tennant_Signature
First_Name Last_Name
X Tennant_Signature
First_Name Last_Name
5


Lessee IP Address: 174.244.51.70 06/16/2025 01:21pm CDT 
Lessor IP Address: 74.194.221.235 06/16/2025 01:23pm CDT